.TH SEISAN2MSEED 1 2005/11/24
.SH NAME
SeisAn to Mini-SEED converter

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
seisan2mseed [options] file1 [file2 file3 ...]

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBseisan2mseed\fP converts SeisAn waveform data files to Mini-SEED.
One or more input files may be specified on the command line.  If an
input file name is prefixed with an '@' character or explicitly
named 'filenr.lis' the file is assumed to contain a list of input data
files, see \fILIST FILES\fP below.

The default translation of SeisAn components to SEED channel codes is
as follows: a 3 character SEED channel is composed of the first,
second and fourth characters of the component; furthermore if the
second character is a space and the first and fourth are not spaces
an 'H' is substituted for the 2nd character (i.e. 'S__Z' -> 'SHZ').
The default SEED location code is '00', if the third character of the
SeisAn component is not a space it will be placed in the first
character of the SEED location code.  Other translations may be
explicitly specified using the -T command line option.

If the input file name is a standard SeisAn file name the default
output file name will be the same with the 'S' at character 19
replaced by an 'M'.  Otherwise the output file name is the input file
name with a "_MSEED" suffix.  The output data may be re-directed to a
single file or stdout using the -o option.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "-V         "
Print program version and exit.

.IP "-h         "
Print program usage and exit.

.IP "-v         "
Be more verbose.  This flag can be used multiple times ("-v -v" or
"-vv") for more verbosity.

.IP "-S         "
Include SEED blockette 100 in each output record with the sample rate
in floating point format.  The basic format for storing sample rates
in SEED data records is a rational approximation
(numerator/denominator).  Precision will be lost if a given sample
rate cannot be well approximated.  This option should be used in those
cases.

.IP "-B         "
Buffer all input data into memory before packing it into Mini-SEED
records.  The host computer must have enough memory to store all of
the data.  By default the program will flush it's data buffers after
each input block is read.  An output file must be specified with the
-o option when using this option.

.IP "-n \fInetcode\fP"
Specify the SEED network code to use, if not specified the network
code will be blank.  It is highly recommended to specify a network
code.

.IP "-l \fIloccode\fP"
Specify the SEED location code to use, if not specified the location
code will be blank.

.IP "-r \fIbytes\fP"
Specify the Mini-SEED record length in \fIbytes\fP, default is 4096.

.IP "-e \fIencoding\fP"
Specify the Mini-SEED data encoding format, default is 11 (Steim-2
compression).  Other supported encoding formats include 10 (Steim-1
compression), 1 (16-bit integers) and 3 (32-bit integers).  The 16-bit
integers encoding should only be used if all data samples can be
represented in 16 bits.

.IP "-b \fIbyteorder\fP"
Specify the Mini-SEED byte order, default is 1 (big-endian or most
significant byte first).  The other option is 0 (little-endian or
least significant byte first).  It is highly recommended to always
create big-endian SEED.

.IP "-o \fIoutfile\fP"
Write all Mini-SEED records to \fIoutfile\fP, if \fIoutfile\fP is a
single dash (-) then all Mini-SEED output will go to stdout.  All
diagnostic output from the program is written to stderr and should
never get mixed with data going to stdout.

.IP "-T \fIcomp=chan\fP"
Specify an explicit SeisAn component to SEED channel mapping, this
option may be used several times (e.g. "-T SBIZ=SHZ -T SBIN=SHN -T
SBIE=SHE").  Spaces in components must be quoted, i.e. "-T 'S  Z'=SHZ".

.SH LIST FILES
If an input file is prefixed with an '@' character the file is assumed
to contain a list of file for input.  As a special case an input file
named 'filenr.lis' is always assumed to be a list file.  The list can
be either simple text, with one file per line, or the format created
by the SeisAn dirf command (filenr.lis).

Multiple list files can be combined with multiple input files on the
command line.

An example of a simple test list:

.nf
2003-06-20-0643-41S.EDI___003
2005-07-23-1452-04S.CER___030
.fi

An example of an equivalent list in the dirf (filenr.lis) format:

.nf
 #  1  2003-06-20-0643-41S.EDI___003
 #  2  2005-07-23-1452-04S.CER___030
.fi

.SH ABOUT SEISAN
SeisAn is a widely used seismic data analysis package available from
the University of Bergen, Norway: http://www.geo.uib.no/seismo/

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Chad Trabant
IRIS Data Management Center
.fi
